Welcome everyone to this logistic regression code along lecture we're going to start off by working
through a classic classification example and that is the Titanic dataset which is a really common exercise
when you're starting off learning about machine learning classification.
So you'll find lots of examples of it online so you can compare the approach we take here to other approaches
and we're going to be using this dataset in an attempt to predict what passengers survived the Titanic
crash.
Bates solely on those passengers features.
So for example have a bunch of features such as a passenger's age their cabin.
How many children they had whether they were male or female etcetera.
And just using those features we're going to be able to predict whether or not they survived the Titanic
crash and eventually you'll see that people who were male or were in the lower class such as the third
class tended to not survive.
And people that were in higher classes like first class and there were female to have a higher likelihood
of survival.
So we're also going to explore a few more topics we'll see some better ways to deal with categorical
data through a two step process and we're also going to show you how to use pipelines to set stages
and build models that can be easily used.
Again our data is also going to have lots of missing information.
So we're going to need to deal with that as well and learn how to deal with missing information.
Let's get started.
I'm actually going to be using the data Brick's notebook setup but of course you can use your installation
of whatever method you prefer.
The data file for this is called Titanic thought CXXVI and it's located in the same folder as the Titanic
logger regression code along notebook.
Going to open up my browser and get started.
OK here I am I'm actually working with the data Brick's format.
Again you can work with this in your virtual box environment on Amazon AWOS whatever you prefer.
Since I'm working on data bricks I upload it as a table and then I've selected it from the Tenex underscore
CXVII.
Of course you could do a read that see every command.
Just make sure you say infer scheme is true as well as being true.
And if I check up my data frame or my data ongoing going to print the schema for this run that cell
and then eventually see my schema here I have the passenger ID survives the passenger class name of
the passenger sex that is gender age siblings or spouses they had onboard parents or children they had
on board tickets.
So how much they actually paid for their ticket what cabin they were in and embarked.
Which is a string indicating whether they embarked in a certain city and that actual string is just
a single letter.
We're going to do for now is select only the data that we need.
So passenger ID that's just basically an index position.
So it's not really useful to us.
So we're going to only select columns that are useful to us.
So we'll say my calls for my columns is DMF and I'm going to select only select a list of columns here
but in order to kind of speed up this process let me actually say DMF and call the columns themselves.
And then over here Will's kind of copy the same come in and this will save me some typing.
So the ones I want are passenger or survive excuse me which is going to be our label 0 or 1 whether
or not they survive the class.
So we're going to use those as well.
I'm not going to use their actual name because whether or not someone's named Harry or Sally is going
to be hard to indicate whether or not they survived later on you could kind of use feature engineering
to grab things like whether or not they were a doctor or Mr. or Mrs. Right now will just kind of ignore
that state.
The basics they were going to grab the sex and age call them as well.
Along with the sibling and spouse parent children.
So let's grab those adding the men and then we're also going to grab the Fair column which is how much
they paid for their ticket and then embarked.
Which is a string indicating what city embarked on or embarked on to the ship.
So now you have this list of columns and what I'm going to do now is first dealing with the missing
data.
So the way we're going to deal of missing data right now is just kind of get rid of it and drop it.
That's the simplest way to deal with missing data.
It's a kind of extreme way of dealing with missing data.
But the other alternative is to fill in the data to keep things simple for now.
We'll just say my final data is equal to elysée my calls.
So those are the columns I wanted because I said DFI select those columns and then I'll say a drop and
that's going to drop the missing data from it.
So now I have my final data and we're going to do now is work with categorical columns.
So we're going to break this down into multiple steps to make it all clear.
And we're going to be copying and pasting code from the notebook to make sure that we don't have any
typos here.
So you can go ahead and copy and paste this code or just kind of type along with it but would recommend
you copy and paste so you don't have any typos.
So let's explain what we're doing here.
The first thing to do is just do a couple of imports from the Paice bark machine learning feature section.
And we're going to import a vector assembler a vector indexer a one hot encoder and a string that that's
her son going to run that and import those.
And then the way we're going to operate working categorical columns here is we're first going to create
a string indexer and then we're going to one hot encode them can basically what that means is the string
indexer allows us to convert every string into a number.
So a perfect example of this is going to be kind of the male female.
So let's go ahead and create a gender index or we'll type along now and then we'll copy of the next
one.
So I'm going to say gender indexer is equal to a string indexer.
So we can just kind of tap autocomplete that and stree indexer is going to take in an input column parameters
input call and the input column for this is going to be that sex column which indicates their gender.
And then we need to say the output column.
And then this is where you choose a name and kind of by default we usually choose that column name and
then add an index kind of right next to it.
So this gender indexer it's going to accept the sex column and then it's going to output an indexed
version of it.
And basically what that means is it's going to assign a number for every category of that column.
So you can imagine let's say we had three different letters in a column A B and C and they each said
stood for different categories what the indexer would do is it would assign a number to each of those
so a would be zero would be one soon to be two and so on.
So every particular category then gets a number.
Then after that we're going to one hot encode them and what that means is it transforms the actual numbers
for the categories into a one hot encoding where you have an array indicating kind of zeros and ones
of what the actual category was.
So I wanted to kind of show you in comments what that would actually look like.
So the indexer.
We start off with kind of something like ABC for in the case of sex it's really as male female but I
know you use a couple of more letters here so it's clear kind of what we're doing.
And then we have ABC indexers going to say 0 1 to kind of.
And so on.
And then we're going to do is one hot encoding and one high end coating does is for each of these kind
of particular categories it's going to create a one hot encoding.
And what that means is if you have a key that is basically the columns ABC to one hot encode an example
column let's say the example was a damn what we can do for example they say that one zero zero and that's
how you would one encode a.
And let me zoom in here a little bit.
What this does is in the case a vector format of only ones and zeros what the category is.
So if you have a one there then you match up with a.
And it basically indicates that has no B and no C category.
So that's how you encode an example row the value of a in an order to do this we need two steps.
One is to convert the strings into numbers and then the numbers and the being encoded through a 100
coater.
So the next thing we're going to do.
We're going to say a gender encoder is equal to my one hot encoder
and then the input column for this guy is going to be the sex index column that we just created with
our indexer and then we're going to say output column is equal to.
And in this case kind of the convention is to have the name of the original column and then say that
because they're kind of vectors instead of single strings.
So basically what happens is in every row you had a single string category such as male or female A
or B or C etc. or whatever that string was.
And eventually each entry just gets converted to a vector.
So if you had an example of male female a row could have the input of male and eventually it would come
out with something like a vector of 1 common 0 indicating male was one female with zero.
And if someone were female at the end of the day they would have something like 0 1 is the vector.
OK so that's her indexer and that's our encoder.
We're going to do the exact same thing for the Embarq columns and it's kind of nice about this is you
actually don't need to know how many categories there are beforehand.
The indexer and encoder combination essentially takes care of this for you.
So here we that the Embarq indexer and Embarq and coater so embark in there.
Again that's kind of a category that's actually really similar to ABC.
I think the values are C-s.
Q In the kitting kind of first letters of different cities and then the next step is to create an assembler.
So we're going to assemble all this using a vector assembler and then we're going to have input columns
and the input columns are going to be P.E. class and then we're going to choose the vector columns we
created.
So we create a sex vector column and then we're also going to end up creating a Embarq vector column
and then whoops then after that we have basically everything else we did which was age and these kind
of already.
And if you take a look at the data they're already integer so you really don't mess with them.
Then we'll do parent child and I believe Fair which is a floating point value.
So we have that.
And then those are the input columns the output columns that we're going to be doing here put call that's
just going to be equal to let's say features which is I think the default as well.
So let's run that make sure we didn't do a typo there.
OK so there's our assembler it's a vector assembler.
Notice how we're no longer using the embarked column or the sex column.
We're only really going to be using the sex vector and Embarq vector and that's going to allow our logistic
regression model to work with categorical data.
So now it's time to actually use that classification model and not only are we're going to use the classification
all directly.
We're also going to show you how to use a pipeline because we really haven't actually called the index
or encoder yet.
We've only created them.
We're still need to call them.
We're going to do now is safe from Paice sparked the M-L dot classification import our logistic regression
and then we'll also say from Paice spark the M-L import our pipeline and now it's time to create our
pipeline.
So the pipeline does is it sets stages for different steps.
If you have a very complex machine learning task you will often have to set up a bunch of stages and
in our case this was a little more complex than what we've dealt with before because we're dealing with
indexing and coding so we want to set the stages of how to do this.
So before we actually assemble this vector we need to do the indexing and encoding for the actual dataset.
So that's what the pipeline serves as.
So we're first going to do the following will say log score read Titanic and you can always copy the
notes here.
Titanic is equal to.
It will create a logistic regression object and the features column it expects is going to be just called
features and then the label column is going to be survived.
That's already a zero on one column for us.
OK.
So that's our logistic regression object that expects features and survives.
And now we're going to create a pipeline.
So I'm going to copy and paste this from the notes so you guys can do the same to make sure to have
any typos here but this is essentially what we're going to do.
The pipeline has a status parameter which is a list of everything you want to do.
So the first thing to do is index the gender column and remember the indexer right here for the gender
takes in the input column Sex and then outputs a column sex index.
Keep in mind that once you apply that you actually still have that sex column in your data.
But now in addition to that you also have a sex index column in your data.
Then we're going to run our 100 coater which grabs that sex index column just created and then outputs
sex vector column and the vector column is the only one I really need at the end of the day which is
why in our vector Sembler we only grab the X Factor column and the Embarq vector column as well as the
ones that were already either an integer or float format for us.
And then we're going to the same thing.
Transforming the Embarq category column into one hot uncoated column.
So that's all this is doing.
And we passed this in as a list of steps for the objects or assembler.
And then finally at the end you passen your actual model.
So kind of interesting here you said stages of the transformations.
Assemble them and then have the model.
So that's our pipeline.
And then what's really cool about this pipeline object is you can treat it just like you would a normal
model.
And the first thing I want to do is get some training data and some test data.
So I'm going to say my training data Khama my test data do a little bit of tuple unpacking here is equal
to my final data that I created and I'm going to call a random split off of this will say random split
and we'll say 17:30 So 70 percent of it is training data 30 percent of it is testate and you can see
here I've created two data frames.
And then the next thing you're always to do is say my fitted model is equal to and you call a pipeline
object just like you would a normal machine learning object or machine learning algorithm.
You call it right off of it and then passing your training data so pipelined fit in I'm going to get
to that training data that's running that job right now.
Can a hop forward in time to finish training.
OK.
Well there you go only took five seconds and then the next step is to transform our test data.
So we actually want to test our results on a test data set.
So I'll say the results is equal to that model and then I'm going to transform my test data so transforming
the test data.
And then after I've done that it's time to evaluate we'll say from Paice bark the M-L the evaluation.
I'm going to import a binary classification evaluator and that allows me to get some quick classification
metrics for a binary classification.
So from MLT evaluation import binary classification and then we'll say my evaluator object or my evil
is equal to a binary classification evaluator object.
And then depending on what version you're using of SPARC you need to pass in either prediction column
or raw prediction column.
If you're using 2.2 which I am here it should be raw prediction column and then we'll passen prediction.
So how do I know to pass this string prediction.
Well by default whenever you fit or excuse me whatever transforms and test data it's going to automatically
call its predicted column prediction in lowercase so we can have that right there.
And then the label call them is the label column of the original data which in our case is survived
so we've created our evaluator object.
Now it's time to actually use it.
Now what I'm going to do is say my evil and then I'm going to call the evaluate method off of this and
then I'm going to pasan my results before I do this I just want to show you what the results look like.
What say results.
And let's go ahead and just say results select and let's select the columns that we're passing in.
So it's going to be a survived column and the prediction column and sales show.
So what the results actually look like if we select just these two columns It's a survived column and
a prediction column.
So here at the very top you can see that none of these people survived.
But some of them were actually predicting that they did survive.
Some of them were matching up with correct prediction of 0 0.
So in order to actually evaluate this we can use the binary classification evaluator and the binary
classification evaluator is going to return area under the curve.
So I'll say a U.S. is equal to my evil and we can evaluate the results.
And then we can check if we scroll down a little more with the area under the curve was there.
So in this case it's 0.7 6.
OK and that's the basics of working with a logistic regression on a more realistic example.
Keep in line we're going to see lots more examples of doing some sort of binary classification evaluation
and later on we'll see some other metrics how to get things like accuracy or recall or precision those
sort of things right now we're just dealing with area under the curve which you can check up the resource
link if you're unfamiliar with it has to do if ROIC curves if you need help in interpreting it.
And also in the resource links there's a really nice example for an other dataset where you have to
do kind of a similar task of indexing and encoding main things.
I just want to go over here is that we learned now how to do indexing and in coding for a categorical
data and then we also learn how to set up our pipelines for them.
OK.
Definitely recommend you check out the two links in this lecture for resources on more information as
well as more examples how to do this.
Coming up next is going to be your example consulting project.
I'll see you there.